Hey What's up everybody this is Jason with slopes dot com.
And in this video we are going to learn about C specifics.
I'll say it in slow motion so you understand what I'm saying specificity.
So anyways during this video I am going to be slaughtering that word.
But don't worry about it.
But the concept of this is very very important.
So basically what specificity means is it's it takes and adds a weight value to different selectors
So we've got elements selectors class selectors IDs selectors things like that and then it adds a kind
of like a point value to it to determine what style rules should be applied.
So for example to better explain this let's let's dive into an example here.
So here we have a group of elements here right of elements selectors.
Well what if we took an element selector here and we gave it the same property of a color.
But we wanted something different.
OK so in each one of these cases we've got a head or one selector element and the first one has a color
of white and the second one has a color of green.
So let's see which declaration is going to take precedence here.
So I'm going to go ahead and I'm going to launch this and it looks like that the font color green took
place right.
So before we had the grouped elements and then the last one where we did the standalone header one tagged
it took the president of green.
Now why is that.
Well it's because each of these elements selectors has a value of 1.
So check out the calculator here.
To the left and you'll see that an element selector has the least value of any of the other type of
selectors.
So when you have a declaration of equal value the one that comes last in your cascading style she is
going to win.
So for example let's cut this one and we'll put it right above here.
OK.
And then let's go ahead and check it out again.
And now it's white.
All right.
And that's because the White had her one property value came last in ours Cascading Style Sheet.
So it took precedence.
All right so we know that if we add multiple selectors to the declaration we're making that it gets
a higher point value.
So what if.
Right over here you see that we've got a DIV tag in our head or one tag is nested inside of it.
What if we went ahead and grabbed the div selector and then our head or one and we know that the head
of one is a descendant of the div tag here which means we've got this head or one that's inside of the
Stiv tag.
And then on the very outside here we actually have a head or one tag that's outside of it.
So what this means is this is going to have a point value of two because we've got two elements with
one point and then the one outside of our div element is going to inherit the color of white.
So let me show you what that looks like.
So you can see here that we've got the green now because we've got a higher point value and then the
one element that was outside of our DIV tag just inherited the white color there.
So let's come back to brackets.
Now let's do another example this one is going to be fun.
So go ahead and copy this class here and give it some space above and we're going to go ahead and paste
it.
And what I want you to do is on the top one I want you to change this to body.
And then on this one here let's change it to aged himself.
All right so and make the female red.
All right cool.
So let's look at this.
So we've got two elements selectors on each.
So we've got two points on these but if we come over to our HTL we've got this tag here.
We're grabbing like the super parent right.
Because the female is like the very very very top element of this entire page and we're saying every
or one descendant of the HTML page make it a color red.
But then if we dive a little deeper we've got this body tag in here and we're saying hey every head
or one tag that is a descendant of the body.
Go ahead and make it green.
So which one's going to take precedence here which one's going to win.
All right.
So we've got the hierarchy of the male which is a top element and then we've got the body.
So everybody pulls out some cash and everything dropped on the table let's make some bets and let's
go ahead and check this out.
And it's red.
OK.
Well that kind of makes sense because we assigned the red to our h team L right which in our H.M. page
over here it's like the top element.
But what happens if we take the and we cut it and we put it above the body.
Are we still going to get the same result.
And does anybody owe me money.
Did you lose the bet.
All right.
So let's let's come back to the browser.
And now we've got green.
All right so it changed so it doesn't matter about the hierarchy in our shemale page over here.
So looking at the calculator again we've got two H Jamail element selectors.
OK.
They both have a point value of 1 and there's two in here so there is a point value of two that are
equal.
However remember in a cascading style sheet the last one with the same points is going to win.
So that's why the Green won here this last time around took precedence.
Let's go ahead and do another example and change your T.M. classier and we're going to grab the container
class.
All right.
And then on the body just go ahead and change your back to a div.
So what we're saying here is every head or one tag that is a descendent of this container.
We want it to be red and then we're also saying that every head or one there is a descendant of the
div tag.
We want it to be green.
So they both have two selectors in here.
But let's see which one wins.
So come back over to the browser and you can see that our container class 1 right.
Because we've got the text that is red.
So let's go back to the text editor and find out why.
So looking at our calculator here we can see that we get a point for having a class and we get a point
for having an element and then down here we get a point for having an element.
And we have another point for having an element.
So over here we have 11 points which beats the two points down here.
Making sense you're following.
All right.
So let's do something a little bit crazy here.
And on this Hetter one tag.
Go ahead and add an ID card and we're going to create this ID and equal it to foo.
All right and then save that and then come over here let's add some space up top here.
And what I want you to do is grab the element fill and then we're going to change this to a color of
red.
All right and then down here let's grab her I.D. in a different way.
Let's use an attribute selector.
So create some square brackets and then in here we're going to say every ID that is equal to foo we
want this style property to have a color of kind.
All right.
So this is going to be interesting here because if we remember our calculator we're going to be adding
up some points here.
So we know that the IDs have a higher point value over our classes.
But how is this going to work.
Which one is going to win.
Grabbing the idea two separate ways.
Well let's go ahead and find out.
So coming over to this hack you can see that our idea class or our idea selector is the one that one.
And why is that.
Well let's pull open the calculator.
So looking at the calculator we get one point for having an ID.
We don't have any classes in this and we don't have any elements so we get zero points.
And then over here we actually get one point for having a class or an attribute right here because in
here you can see that we have classes pseudo code and attributes right here.
So we get a point for having an attribute selector and then there's no elements or anything else so
we get a point zero.
So we only got a point of 10 here.
All right so now there is one more way that we can do this.
And this is with a style property directly embedded inside of the Shanelle.
So over here in our shemale create a space.
And let's go ahead and type in style and then let's add a color.
And we're going to make it different here.
Let's make this one yellow.
I mean lowercase them and then end it with the semi-colon.
So now we have embedded a style color inside of our H-L element.
This one.
So let's check out how that works.
And you can see that with the style property added directly into our age HTML that it gave us the most
points so going back to our calculator you can see that we get one point for having a style attribute
instead of an HMO.
And we don't have any of the other ID's classes or elements we get zero points.
So this in essence gave us a thousand points right.
Whereas the ID was only giving us 100.
But what if we got really really really specific with this idea over here.
What if we just went crazy when we grabbed the HTML element and then the body and then the DIV tag with
the class of container and then we went into the head or one tag with the with the idea of foo.
Now that is pretty specific here isn't it.
I mean if we're talking about specificity whatever that is.
We were very specific and what we're working with.
Right.
So let's see which one is going to win our inline or our super specific selectors in here.
And going to this we check it out and it's still yellow.
And why is that.
Well let's look at our calculator.
Even though we're being very very specific here let's see what these points add up to.
Well we get a point for having an element we get another point for having an unknown element.
We get another point for the div element.
We get a point for the class and we get a point for the head of one element and we get a point for the
foo ID and that gives us a total score of 114.
So 1000 still out beats a hundred and fourteen.
So now there's one more thing that I want to cover in this.
OK.
And that is the important rule.
Now technically important has nothing to do with it has nothing to do with it.
All right.
But it does affect how we use it.
All right because it really overwrites the flow of our Cascading Style Sheet.
And let me show you what I mean by that so we can come down here.
And let's go ahead and just we're going to use this right here we're going to grab this one element
All right let me create some space here.
So we're going to grab this one element.
All right.
We've already got this inline styling over here of yellow that's just dominating everything.
It has a thousand points.
All right.
But if we come to this one and we have a color of green which technically we only have a point value
of one compared to 1000 here and we add this important rule this is going to override every single style
rule that has been applied to this one.
Now I highly recommend not using this.
This is really going to mess up your cascading style sheet when you're trying to debug things because
it is such a hard override on this.
OK.
So let's go check this out in the browser so you can see that it has completely overridden all style
attributes regardless of the way that we've nested our head or one tag to target a color that important
tag is going to dominate and completely nuke that point system only use important on page specific CSSA
that overrides foreign s.c.s like external libraries such as bootstrap or unnormalized VSS.
And really when it comes down to it just be specific for the element that you're trying to select and
you can do that by adding additional elements selectors in front of the element you're targeting like
we did here when we were trying to target the head of one.
We added a bunch of selectors in front of it.
And if you find yourself in situations where you're having conflicting style rules go ahead and use
the specificity point template that I have provided add things up and see where the problem is.
That wraps it up for this lesson with CSSA specificity.
We'll see you then.
This specific city and I'll say it in slow motion so you understand what I'm saying.
It's space.
Mark what is it.
A better use of spaces specificity specificity versus specificity specif specificity.
I can't remember what Mark told me do this word for.